
Integrated Value Variables


Perhaps not all value variables should be what they are in every context.

An array object could carry an index integer or indices object array.  This
object class might be called Arrayi (array with index). The point of this is to
remove the separation of roles in code that produce tedium.


Typically the app is constructed in the following way.  In the case that a GUI
control needs to control the values of different variables, it wouldn't be tied
to a specific variable or be generated by one.

But in practice this makes it difficult to construct GUIs in such a way that the
code can be edited quickly.

If when a variable is declared it inherits from an object class that gives it
factory methods and allows it to generate, own, and bind to controls, this is a
more straightforward way.  This is the opposite of how variables are regarded
today.  A variable might have many properties and communicate with the GUI
system. It would for example be assigned the ID of a slot for a GUI control. The
variable will have many features self-contained.

The Arrayi (array with index) may primarily manage a dropdown button for its
list but its data is still available for other purposes.

The programming language still has the lightweight vars available like before.
It's just that this is now available.

let arr = []; vs. arr = Arrayi([1,2,3], index=0);

The variable has levels of features available depending on how it is used. If
the array just needs to have self-contained iteration for purposes inside the
code, it can be declared as Arrayi([1,2,3], index=0) and it won't need any GUI
instructions.  But if it is to be serving also as the manager of the control,
the declaration might be

let arrayGrid = Arrayi([1,2,3], index=0,uicontrol={type:grid,rows=3,cols=4});

The arrayi can start lightweight or with lots of features.

A benefit is that software developers would be programming with an ArrayI while
having a general idea of the output and view the whole time.  An ArrayI could be
set to a 2D grid presentation.

The levels of features emerge from the constructor arguments—omitting GUI
details keeps it non-UI, while including them activates control ownership and
binding.

An integer might act as a loop

Basic Level: inti = Inti(5) – Just a value, with optional internal methods for
mutation. Bounded Level: inti = Inti(5, min=0, max=10, step=1) – Adds
constraints for safe increments/decrements. GUI-Enabled Level: inti = Inti(5,
min=0, max=10, step=1, uicontrol={type: 'slider', orientation: 'horizontal'}) –
Manages a slider, handles events, and syncs value.


For an integer, features might include looping on increment such as from 0
to 360 where there is clamping of internal values and then the value reset to
the min.  This has benefits in the code which don't exist like this today, which
is that a variable can have behaviors assigned to it.   If a variable has
behaviors, it can do things in response to different value assignments.  If the
string contains a thing, it might automatically remove that.  If the variable
exceeds 360 in our example, it would reset it to 0 as the integer would be in a
looping behavior.   A looping behavior would be combined with a circular slider.

	inti = Inti(5, min=0, max=360, behavior='loop')

	if it has the step parameter activated, it can have receive the .increment() 
	and .decrement() commands:
	
	intiStepping = Inti(5, step=2, min=0, max=360, behavior='loop')

    intiStepping.increment();
   
   
    
When a circular slider is included:

    inti = Inti(5, min=0, max=360, behavior='loop', uicontrol={'type': 
    'circular_slider', 'label': 'Angle'})

Initialize Inti with behaviors and scalable features.

        - value: Current integer value.
        - min/max: Optional bounds (integers).
        - step: Increment/decrement step size (default 1).
        - behavior: Optional: 'loop' (wrap at bounds), 'clamp' (limit to bounds), or None.
        - uicontrol: Optional dict for GUI config (e.g., {'type': 'circular_slider'} for loop behavior).
        
If there is a target system ui slot, it can access the ui scene node 
through a dot syntax and it will be appended inside that node:

    inti = Inti(5, min=0, max=360, behavior='loop', uicontrol={'type': 
    'circular_slider', 'label': 'Angle', uislot={sys.slot1.panel2}})


Make a callback function:

# Example: GUI with Loop and Circular Slider
gui_loop_inti = Inti(0, min=0, max=360, behavior='loop', uicontrol={'type': 'circular_slider', 'label': 'Hue'})
gui_loop_inti.create_control()  # Creates circular slider

def mock_slider_update(value):
    print(f"Circular slider updated to: {value}")

gui_loop_inti.add_observer(mock_slider_update)


	





