
NOCTIVAGOUS MOBILE PHONE

Designed with buttons on the side for a
specific communication feature.

It provides an alternative to these
three modes of back-and-forth with a
mobile phone

	- phone call 
	- text message 
	- walkie talkie

The user selects a call recipient on the
touchscreen, holds the phone up to the
ear, presses one of the buttons on the
side, waits for the tone, and then
records an audio snippet that is sent to
the other person.  The other person will
receive a notification and answer it,
either through a text message or the
same kind of audio messaging feature.

To listen to it, the person touches the
notification, holds the phone up to the
ear and presses a button on the side,
which plays it.  After it plays the
person presses the button to reply and a
tone plays, the person replies and then
presses the button again and it is sent.

This is like a walkie talkie feature
that accommodates the recipient and the
sender.

The recipient sees or feels a vibration
and the buttons on the side assist in
answering it and traversing through
communications, like answering voice
messages.
